Update docs / Designer Best Practices (#1006)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/getting-started/for-designers/partials/best-practices.md

### Resizing components

Helios components are designed and built to layout-agnostic, meaning the task of laying out components in a design is left to the consumer.

Unless specifically mentioned in the documentation, the component in code will fill the parent container it is used in. For designers, it's helpful to use [auto layout](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/5731482952599-Using-auto-layout#:~:text=You%20can%20add%20auto%20layout%20to%20a%20selected%20frame%2C%20component,and%20select%20Add%20Auto%20layout) wherever possible which closely mimics [CSS Flexbox](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/) and other layout mechanisms in the browser. Helios Figma components are flexible and can be set to `fill container` within an auto layout container, which replicates the experience of a development environment.

!!! Warning

**Fixed width components**

Setting a component to a fixed width in Figma is akin to setting an explicit `width` value on a component or element in code. This generally goes against fluid and responsive best practices and should be avoided in Figma. Instead, use auto layout wherever possible.
!!!

> ## Working with foundations (styles)

Reviewer: Removed "(styles)" so the sidecar doesn't have a weird wrapping issue. 

```suggestion
## Working with foundations
```

> Similar to components, using styles defined in the Helios [Product Foundations](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?t=4kdgl88SMIiEYhbA-1) reinforces consistency and can help to resolve problems with style usage and implementation. Detaching from Helios styles is not recommended in most circumstances.

Reviewer: Trying to reinforce that "foundations" and "styles" are somewhat interchangeable in our language. And a minor tweak to use a more active voice on the last sentence.

```suggestion
Similar to components, using the foundational styles defined in the Helios [Product Foundations](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?t=4kdgl88SMIiEYhbA-1) library reinforces consistency and can help to resolve problems with style usage and implementation. We don't recommend detaching from Helios styles in most circumstances.
```

Figma is an incredibly versatile tool, but this versatility can sometimes backfire leading to disorganization, inconsistency, and difficulty in handoffs and collaboration. These best practices are geared towards using Helios components and foundations effectively to alleviate some of these challenges. For documentation around broader Figma best practices within HashiCorp design teams, reach out to the HashiCorp [Design Ops team](https://sites.google.com/hashicorp.com/designknowledgehub/design-system) or visit the [#design-ops slack channel](https://hashicorp.slack.com/archives/C029GL8GJDV).

## Component availability

> **Structure** is the legacy set of components and foundations used to connect HashiCorp products and consists Ember components and foundational styles paired with a limited set of Figma counterparts. **Structure is no longer supported and is in the process of deprecation and sunsetting.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Structure** is the legacy set of components and foundations used to connect HashiCorp products and consists of Ember components and foundational styles paired with a limited set of Figma counterparts. **Structure is no longer supported and is in the process of deprecation and sunsetting.**
```

Author: Ended up removing the portion about Ember components in the end.

> **Structure** is the legacy set of components and foundations used to connect HashiCorp products and consists Ember components and foundational styles paired with a limited set of Figma counterparts. **Structure is no longer supported and is in the process of deprecation and sunsetting.**

Reviewer: I liked this in the banner, actually. I don't think the details about what is included in Structure (ie. Ember components, foundational styles, Figma counterparts, etc) are necessary since it is being sunset...feels a little too verbose. Structure also wasn't widely used, so I recommend adjusting some of the language for accuracy. 

```suggestion
**What is Structure?**

Structure is the legacy Design System used primarily by Cloud UI. **Structure is no longer supported and we're in the process of sunsetting it.**
```

As we work to achieve parity between Structure and Helios, use this decision tree to understand how to move forward within your project:

![Decision tree flow chart](/assets/getting-started/designers/hds-decision-tree.png)

**Does the element (or a comparable alternative) exist in Helios?**

If so, great! Using this element ensures it will be supported in future versions of Helios and that it shares a common visual language with the rest of the elements.

**If no, does the element (or a comparable alternative) exist in Structure?**

If yes, use this component with the understanding that:

1. Structure will be deprecated/sunsetted in the future
2. Not all Figma components are built in code
3. There is no longer a support structure in place if errors/bugs arise

If no, or having future support is a must: design and build your own local element using Helios foundations (color, typography, elevation, etc) as a starting point.

### Local components

> Components and patterns that are unique to your product should be designed and built locally, extending Helios components and foundations.

Reviewer: Can we beef up this section a bit? What constitutes a "unique" component or pattern? What do you mean by built locally? What would you tell a designer who's never used a design system before?

Reviewer: Ahh, what is in the insight banner below is what I was looking for here. What if you moved the content in that banner out of the banner and as a part of this section instead? That would flow a bit better.

![Local component patterns](/assets/getting-started/designers/local-component-patterns.png)

> <LinkTo class="doc-link-generic" @route="patterns">Patterns</LinkTo> and guidance around combining and extending Helios components are not currently supported, but are on our [roadmap](https://go.hashi.co/hds-rollout).

Reviewer: I'd like to see us try to use different language when talking about patterns because I don't think "not supported" is entirely accurate. "Not supported" makes it sound like we made a conscious decision not to do something, but really we just needed to focus on lower-level components so that we could build out these larger patterns. I'm also not sure how "guidance around combining and extending Helios components" is something that can or cannot be supported.

Author: I'm not sure I agree with this because there's some additional context about what items are on the roadmap. Though, I'll try to clean it up a little bit to lean on our future plans for patterns, we just don't have them yet (something like "provide", etc).

!!! Insight

When creating your own library of local components to use in your projects, it's helpful to separate components from your main design work in their own Figma file. This simplifies publishing and creates a single consistent dependency for your design files. For more information on creating and publishing libraries, visit [Figma's official documentation.](https://www.figma.com/best-practices/components-styles-and-shared-libraries/organizing-and-creating-libraries/)
!!!

> When design and building local components, consider [Atomic Design](https://bradfrost.com/blog/post/atomic-web-design/) methods whenever possible. Helios components generally correspond with the `atom` and `molecule` levels, with some more complex components being considered `organisms`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When designing and building local components, consider [Atomic Design](https://bradfrost.com/blog/post/atomic-web-design/) methods whenever possible. Helios components generally correspond with the `atom` and `molecule` levels, with some more complex components being considered `organisms`.
```

> When design and building local components, consider [Atomic Design](https://bradfrost.com/blog/post/atomic-web-design/) methods whenever possible. Helios components generally correspond with the `atom` and `molecule` levels, with some more complex components being considered `organisms`.

Reviewer: This feels like more appropriate content for the insight banner.

> ## Component instances & detaching

Reviewer 2: Question: Should we encode ampersands?

ie, use: `&amp;`

Author: That's a good question, I'll surface in the channel

Reviewer 2: After researching further, it seems it should be ok as long as the ampersand has a space before and after (and in some other cases but this is the most common and easy to check)

!!!

## Figma styles

Similar to components, using styles defined in the Helios [Product Foundations](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?t=4kdgl88SMIiEYhbA-1) reinforces consistency and can help to resolve problems with style usage and implementation. Detaching from Helios styles is not recommended in most circumstances.

Helios publishes a set of **semantic** styles and tokens that are labeled with their intended usage. For example:

- `Surface / Primary` would be used as the main (or surface) background color of a component.
- `Foreground / Primary` would be used for primary text elements or elements that sit on top of a surface background.
- `Foreground / Action` would be used for an actionable or interactive element within a component or page (i.e. a [Link](/components/link/standalone), or primary [Button](/components/button))

!!! Info

> At this time color styles are the only category for which semantic tokens are available. Semantic styles and tokens have yet to be defined for typography and border.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this time, color styles are the only category for which semantic tokens are available. Semantic styles and tokens have yet to be defined for typography and borders.
```

!!!

### Palette color styles

When choosing what color style to use in your design, we recommend starting with semantic styles as their usage is clearly defined. If you don't find a semantic style that meets your needs, a set of base `Palette` styles that are labeled with a numerical scale are also available. These styles are more usage agnostic which can introduce challenges in consistently scaling a complex design.

> For more information and details on styles and their intended usage visit [foundations](/foundations).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information and details on styles and their intended usage, visit [foundations](/foundations).
```

Effectively use Helios components and foundations by following these best practices.

For documentation around broader Figma best practices within HashiCorp design teams, reach out to the HashiCorp [Design Ops team](https://sites.google.com/hashicorp.com/designknowledgehub/design-system) or visit the [#design-ops slack channel](https://hashicorp.slack.com/archives/C029GL8GJDV).

## When to use Helios

!!! Info

**What is structure?**

> Structure is the legacy design system used primarily by Cloud UI. It is no longer supported and being sunset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Structure is the legacy design system used primarily by Cloud UI. It is no longer supported and is being sunset.
```

!!!

Use this decision tree to understand when to use a component from Helios, from Structure, or when to create your own local component or pattern.

![Decision tree flow chart](/assets/getting-started/designers/hds-decision-tree.png)

### Element exists in Helios

If the component or pattern exists in Helios, use it. This ensures it will be supported in future versions of Helios and that it shares a common visual language with the rest of the elements.

### Element exists in Structure

> If the component or pattern doesn't exist in Helios, but does exist in Structure, use the Structure version, but do so sparingly and with caution because:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the component or pattern doesn’t exist in Helios, but does exist in Structure, use the Structure version, but do so sparingly and with caution because:
```

- Structure is no longer supported and is being sunset
- Some Figma components are not built in code

> ### Element doesn't exist in Helios or Structure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Element doesn’t exist in Helios or Structure
```

> If the component or pattern doesn't exist in Helios or in Structure, design and build your own local element using Helios foundations (color, typography, elevation, etc) as a starting point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the component or pattern doesn’t exist in Helios or in Structure, design and build your own local element using Helios foundations (color, typography, elevation, etc) as a starting point.
```

## Working with Components

A component inserted from a library into a project is referred to as an [instance](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/360039150173-Create-and-insert-component-instances). Instances maintain a link to the main component in the library, which has significant benefits for deploying updates and iterating quickly on components.

### Detaching components

Our Figma components are coupled tightly with their code counterparts to maintain consistency in the API and design language, so in most scenarios, we don’t recommend detaching a component or foundation from the library.

!!! Info

**Why to avoid detaching components**

When you detach a component, it no longer receives updates from the library. This can cause designs and production applications to drift out of sync quickly.
!!!

If you find that a component doesn’t meet your needs, reach out to us for [support](/support) or [submit a request](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScpMXgrUTVT5fYriu4Pp48r4Nl_eCPluVnJLg0Yg3NXsRWvIA/viewform) for a new component, foundation, or feature.

### Overriding component styles

> While styles in Helios Figma components can technically be overwritten without detaching the component, we recommend against doing this prior to consulting the Design System Team. It may seem simple to change the color or the font size within a Figma component, but this can have trickle-down effects in code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While styles in Helios Figma components can technically be overwritten without detaching the component, we recommend against doing this prior to consulting the Design Systems Team. It may seem simple to change the color or the font size within a Figma component, but this can have trickle-down effects in code.
```

- It forces engineers to create custom classes and styles to override Helios styles. This can have unexpected long-term effects within the [CSS cascade](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Cascade#:~:text=The%20cascade%20is%20an%20algorithm,a%20property%20on%20an%20element).
- In addition to being difficult to scale, overrides nudge the visual language of your product out of sync with Helios and with the rest of the HashiCorp product line.

### Resizing components

> Helios components are designed and built to layout-agnostic, meaning the task of laying out components in a design is left to the consumer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Helios components are designed and built to be layout-agnostic, meaning the task of laying out components in a design is left to the consumer.
```

Unless specifically mentioned in the documentation, the component in code will fill the parent container it is used in. For designers, it's helpful to use [auto layout](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/5731482952599-Using-auto-layout#:~:text=You%20can%20add%20auto%20layout%20to%20a%20selected%20frame%2C%20component,and%20select%20Add%20Auto%20layout) wherever possible which closely mimics [CSS Flexbox](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/) and other layout mechanisms in the browser. Helios Figma components are flexible and can be set to `fill container` within an auto layout container, which replicates the experience of a development environment.

!!! Warning

**Fixed width components**

> Setting a component to a fixed width in Figma is akin to setting an explicit `width` value on a component or element in code. This generally goes against fluid and responsive best practices and should be avoided in Figma. Instead, use auto layout wherever possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting a component to a fixed width in Figma is akin to setting an explicit `width` value on a component or element in code. This generally goes against fluid and responsive best practices and should be avoided. Instead, use auto layout wherever possible.
```

Author: I'd actually argue here that the 'in Figma' portion here is useful, because this specific topic is aimed at designers. Though, the language probably overlaps a bit; fixed is a common term in fixed, probably a bit debatable on the engineering side.

Reviewer: I vote for keeping "in Figma" as well since it provides the necessary context.

Reviewer 2: To me the "in Figma" seemed repetitive and also it's a best practice for both Figma components and components in code so that's why I suggested removing.

!!!

## Working with foundations (styles)

Similar to components, using styles defined in the Helios [Product Foundations](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?t=4kdgl88SMIiEYhbA-1) reinforces consistency and can help to resolve problems with style usage and implementation. Detaching from Helios styles is not recommended in most circumstances.

Helios publishes a set of **semantic** styles and tokens that are labeled with their intended usage. For example:

- `Surface / Primary` would be used as the main (or surface) background color of a component.
- `Foreground / Primary` would be used for primary text elements or elements that sit on top of a surface background.
- `Foreground / Action` would be used for an actionable or interactive element within a component or page (i.e. a [Link](/components/link/standalone))

At this time, color styles are the only category for which semantic tokens are available. Semantic styles and tokens have yet to be defined for typography and borders.

### Palette color styles

> When choosing what color style to use in your design, we recommend starting with semantic styles as their usage is clearly defined and common color pairings are accessible out of the box. If you don't find a semantic style that meets your needs, a set of base `Palette` styles that are labeled with a numerical scale are also available. These styles are usage agnostic which can introduce challenges in consistently scaling a complex design, but allow more freedom and flexibility in color pairing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When choosing what color style to use in your design, we recommend starting with semantic styles as their usage is clearly defined and common color pairings are accessible out of the box. If you don’t find a semantic style that meets your needs, a set of base `Palette` styles that are labeled with a numerical scale are also available. These styles are usage agnostic which can introduce challenges in consistently scaling a complex design, but allow more freedom and flexibility in color pairing.
```

For more information and details on styles and their intended usage, visit [foundations](/foundations).

## Designing local components

Components and patterns that are unique to your product should be designed and built locally, extending Helios components and foundations.

![Local component patterns](/assets/getting-started/designers/local-component-patterns.png)

> When creating your own library of local components to use in your projects, it's helpful to separate components from your main design work in their own Figma file. This simplifies library publishing and creates a single consistent dependency for your design files. For more information on creating and publishing libraries, visit [Figma's official documentation.](https://www.figma.com/best-practices/components-styles-and-shared-libraries/organizing-and-creating-libraries/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When creating your own library of local components to use in your projects, it’s helpful to separate components from your main design work in their own Figma file. This simplifies library publishing and creates a single consistent dependency for your design files. For more information on creating and publishing libraries, visit [Figma’s official documentation.](https://www.figma.com/best-practices/components-styles-and-shared-libraries/organizing-and-creating-libraries/)
```

!!! Info

When designing and building local components, consider [Atomic Design](https://bradfrost.com/blog/post/atomic-web-design/) methods whenever possible. Helios components generally correspond with the `atom` and `molecule` levels, with some more complex components being considered `organisms`.
!!!

> We've spent much of the past year building lower level components, and therefore, don't yet offer <LinkTo class="doc-link-generic" @route="patterns">patterns</LinkTo>. See which patterns we plan to work on in the [Helios roadmap](https://go.hashi.co/hds-rollout).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’ve spent much of the past year building lower level components, and therefore, don’t yet offer <LinkTo class="doc-link-generic" @route="patterns">patterns</LinkTo>. See which patterns we plan to work on in the [Helios roadmap](https://go.hashi.co/hds-rollout).
```
